## Word learning in 14-month-old monolinguals and bilinguals: Challenges and methodological opportunities

Ana Maria Gonzalez-Barrero

Rodrigo Dal Ben

Hilary Killam

Krista Byers-Heinlein

This repository contains the analysis code associated with the research manuscript *Word learning in 14-month-old monolinguals and bilinguals*. You can find the associated OSF project, including raw data files and the stimuli used in the studies, at: https://osf.io/upy7f/

### Repository overview

**Data** - this folder contains data files used in the scripts. Due to size limits, the eyetracking data is saved in .Rda format. For a CSV version of the raw eyetracking data, please see the OSF project linked above.
- ```Switch task.csv``` This file contains open data from Tsui, Byers-Heinlein, & Fennell (2019), which we used in our analyses to estimate the effect size of the Switch Task using our studies' parameters (similar age and stimuli), to assess whether our task was more or less sensitive than the Switch Task.
- ```data_ready_for_analysis.Rda``` This file contains the raw eyetracking data collected in our studies, saved in .Rda format due to size constraints for uploading to GitHub. A CSV version can be found on OSF.
- ```participant_data.csv``` This file contains demographic information for participants included in the Traditional analyses
- ```upd_analysis_participant_demographics.csv``` This file contains demographic information for participants included in the Updated analyses, summarized by language familiarity and inclusion status in the traditional analysis.
- ```vocabulary_data.csv``` This file contains participants' vocabulary data for the MacArthur-Bates Communicative Development Inventories: Words and Gestures form (Fenson et al., 2007).

**Figures** - this folder contains output files like figures and logistic regression tables generated by the analysis script.

**Scripts** - this folder contains all analyses in an RMarkdown file, along with a Groundhog package library for reproducability. To run the analysis, open the ```word-learning-in-the-lab-is-hard.Rproj``` file located in the root folder and then run the ```all_analyses.Rmd``` file.
- ```all_analyses.Rmd``` This is the full analysis script.
- ```all_analyses.nb.html``` This is the HTML output of the script when run.
- ```groundhog_library.R``` This is the library of specific packages and versions used in the original analysis script, to make reproducibility of the analysis more straightforward.

References

Fenson L., Marchman V. A., Thal D. J., Dale P. S., Reznick S., Bates E. (2007). MacArthur-Bates communicative development inventories (2nd ed). Baltimore, MD: Brookes Pub-lishing.

Tsui, A. S. M., Byers-Heinlein, K., & Fennell, C. T. (2019). Associative word learning in infancy: A meta-analysis of the switch task. Developmental Psychology, 55(5), 934–950. https://doi.org/10.1037/dev0000699
